0
Congratulations on your pregnancy, you are in your first trimester (first 12 weeks). During this stage your body goes under many changes. Hormones changes can affect almost every in organ in your body, and can trigger some symptoms. These symptoms can include: Tiredness, tender/swollen breast, upset stomach, morning sickness (throwing up), food cravings, mood swings, constipation, mood swings, need to pee often, headaches, heartburn, weight gain or loss.

1
Week 1: As your body changes you may need to make changes to your daily routine. Remember to get enough sleep. This may mean going to bed earlier each night, and making sure you get at least 8 hours

2
Week 2: Focus this week on food. During your pregnancy it may be better to have multiple small meals, rather than big meals, as this is easier to digest. You may get cravings for certain foods, this is ok, but try to minimize unhealthy, highly processed food.

3
Week 3: Mood Swings are extremely common during preganacy, and can be caused by tiredness, stress and hormones. It is very important during this time to get enough sleep and minimise stress levels. 

4
Week 4: By this stage you may start noticing some changes in your body and some of the early signs of pregnancy. You may experience breast tenderness and putting a bra on in the morning may be more of a chore. 

5
Week 5: Your baby is starting to grow. Its only 3mm long at this point. It is important that you are eating enough food. Over the next 35 weeks you should aim to gain between 16kg (if your underweight) to 9kg (if your overweight)

6
Week 6: You may have started to gain a little weight. Some women also experience some bleeding during pregnancy. This spotting may be accompanied by light cramping. Consult a health care provider if bleeding becomes heavy like a normal period. 

7
Week 7: Nausea (feeling sick) and diarrhea. During this time it is normal to start feelling sick and start going to the toilet more frequently. Remember to keep up your fluids and enough water (8cups+(2L) a day)

8
Week 8: You are a 5th of the way through your pregnancy. By this stage your changes to your body may start to be noticable. You may have gained weight, and your skin may have changed. 

9
Week 9: You may feel dizzy or urinate more due to the increased blood volume, which can also cause your veins to buldge a bit or even cause a nose bleed. 

10
Week 10: Although you may feel tired and not have as much energy, keeping somewhat active is important. Doctors recommend low imptact exercises such as swimming or walking at moderate to low levels.

11
Week 11: Your body will continue to change. By this stage you may have gained weight (most women only gain 1-2kg in first 12 weeks). Your breast most likely have grown quite a bit and you may start to feel a bit bloated. 

12
Week 12: This is the last week of the first trimester. This is a great time to look at your diet and ensure that you are recieving all the most important nutrients that you need. 

13
Week 13: Congratulations you are now in the 2nd trimester of your pregnancy. The 2nd Trimester is a good time to tell friends and family that you are pregnant. The highest risk of complications and miscarriages is in the first trimester. Most people find the 2nd trimester easier than the 1st. Your abdomen will now start to expand as the baby grows, and you may notice some stretch marks on your body. Other symptoms: darkedning of skin around nipples, patches of darker skin on face (mask of pregnancy), numb or tingling hands (carpal tunnel syndrome), itching of abdomen and palms, swelling of ankles, fingers and face.

14
Week 14: You may start to feel quite moody during this point in your pregnancy. Mood swings are common, so do not be concerned. You may be feeling excited about your pregnancy, but you may also be feeling overwhelmed. 

15
Week 15: Sleeping. You may start to find your stomach is making sleeping difficult. It is best to sleep on your side. Sleeping on your back or front places extra pressed on your uterus and should be avoided.

16
Week 16: Your baby is now around 12cm long and weighs just 57grams. It is common in weeks 16-20 to start feeling your baby moving, it begin like the feeling of butterflies in your belly. 

17
Week 17: You may now start to feel additional bloating, constipation, gas and indigestion. These a common in pregancy. Ensure that you continue to eat high fibre foods.

18
Week 18: Kicking. The baby's kicking may feel fainter or stronger from day to day, and you may go a few days without feeling a thing. This is totally normal and nothing to worry about. 

19
Week 19: Round ligament pain is most common in the 2nd trimester. You may feel sharp pain in the abdomen or hip area that is on either or both sides. Round ligament pain is considered a normal part of pregnancy.

20
Week 20: You are now halfway through your pregnancy. Its important to start thinking about the delivery of your baby. Where will you be, who will be there. Creating a plan for the day is important.

21
Week 21: A UTI (urinary tract infection) or bladder infection are common in pregnancy due to body changes. UTI can have a burning sensation after peeing. During enough water 8 cups a day, urinating after intercourse, and wiping front to back after urinating can reduce likelihood of UTI's.

22
Week 22: Baby weight increases significantly in weeks 22-24. Many women develop adominal pain, dull backaches, pressure in pelvic area, cramping and vaginal discharge.

23
Week 23: Water Water Water. It is extremely important to get enough clean water each day. Water can help prevent headaches, uterine cramping, urinary tract infections, swelling, and is very important in the healthy development of your baby.

24
Week 24: Heatburn, a form of indigestion that feels like a burning sensation in your chest can occur. Many women find that having 5-6 small meals a day decreases the amount of heartburn they experience.

25
Week 25: Your baby is now 33cm long, and weighs up to .8kg. While it does not seem that your baby is big, he/she is slowing gaining some baby fat, and appearing less wrinkled. 

26
Week 26: Eat more fish. Although there are concerns about eating certain fish, eating fish low in mercury such as salmon, tilapia, shrimp, tuna, cod and catfish is recommended. No more than 2-3 servings a week.

27
Week 27: Congratulations you are now in the 3rd trimester of your pregnancy. Just 13 weeks to go. Most women continue to experience the same discomforts of the 2nd trimester. Women also experience some of the following: Shortness of breath, heartburn, swelling of ankles, fingers and face, hermorrhoid, tender breasts (which may leak pre-milk), trouble sleeping and contractions.Your body is continually growing, making room for your growing baby. You may also find that your mood is continuing to change as your discomforts become more obvious.

28
Week 28: By this stage it is important that you have made a delivery plan. Where will you be having the baby? Home or Hospital? Who is taking you to the hospital. Also make sure that you have a plan B.

29
Week 29: You may start to notice your breasts leaking. It is normally a few drops of clear'ish pre-milk called colostrum. This is normal and nothing to worry about.

30
Week 30: Some women notice that they become tired easily during the last stage of their pregnancy. This can also be caused by difficulties sleeping at night. This can also affect your mood and your overall well being. Its important to get 8hrs or more, or consult a health care professional if you are suffering from insomnia. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!

31
Week 31: Unfortunately Hemorrhoids (painful swollen veins of the rectum) are not uncommon during pregnancy. Hemorrhoids are related to constipation. Remedies include using baking soda on area, taking a warm bath, lemon juice, or hemorrhoid cream. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!


32
Week 32: You should be aware of early contractions, if you notice them there are several things you can do to stop them: change position (lie down if standing, walk if sitting), take a warm bath 30mins, drink couple of glasses of water, drink warm cup of herbal tea or milk. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!


33
Week 33: Your baby has now completed most of its development, the next weeks is about your body getting ready for the final part of the pregnancy, birth! By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!

34
Week 34: Its not long to the birth now. Its important to know some key terms that may be used during the delivery. Ensure you know the meaning of these keys terms: Amnotic Fluid, Placenta, Cesarean, Crowning, Dilation, Epidural, Episiotomy, Fetal Distress, Induced Labor. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!

35
Week 35: You may experience some extra-thick pink or slightly bloody discharge. This is your mucus plug from your cervix. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!

36
Week 36: The big day is very close, ensure that you have a birth plan organised, and also pack a hospital bag. This may include health insurance card/details, breast pads, going home outfit, sanitary pads. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!

37
Week 37: Its now a waiting game from this point on. The big day could come at any time from now on. Its best to start to prepare for what happens after the baby is delivered. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!

38
Week 38: Be on the looking for your water breaking. You may feel a popping sensation and then a drip / trickle of water, or even a gush. The water breaking is the sign of the start of labor. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!

39
Week 39: All babies born during or after week 38 are consider full-term infants. If your baby hasnt come yet its only a matter of time. Take it easy and relax. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!

40
Week 40: Babies delivered after 40weeks can have certain risks. Its best to see a health care professional, as a C-section may be a possible option. By the way, when you give birth, let us know by texting us 'I gave birth'!