0
At birth: your child should receive their first dose of the Hepatitis B vaccine. When your child has received this vaccine, text us 'DONE'.

1
1 month	Your baby should have their 2nd dose of the Hepatitus B vaccine. They should have this dose between 1-2 months of age. When your child has received this vaccine, text us 'DONE'.

2
2 months: At this age your baby should be vaccinated for the following: RVS, DTaP, HiB, PCV13, IPV. Don't let this freak you out, many of these are combined into one shot. These are the first dose and your baby will need booster shots. When your child has received all of these vaccines, text us 'DONE'.

4
4 months: Now is time for your baby to have the 2nd dose of the shots they had at 2 months old. As a recap: RVS, DTaP, HiB, PCV13, IPV. When your child has received all of these vaccines, text us 'DONE'. 

6
6 months: At 6 months old, your baby needs a 3rd dose of the following vaccines: DTaP, PCV13, IPV and HepB. The IPV vaccine can be given any time between 6 months and 18 months old. The HepB vaccine can be given between 6 months and 18 months old.  When your child has received all of these vaccines, text us 'DONE'.

12
12 months: Happy Birthday to your little one! They now need to receive their last dose of Hib and PCV13. It is also time for their first dose of: MMR, Varicella and HepA. MMR and Varicella can be given anytime between 12 and 18 months. Where as the HepA is made up of 2 doses delivered between 12 months and 24 months. When your child has received all of these vaccines, text us 'DONE'.

18
18 months Has your child received all the doses they need? MMR and Varicella should be given to your baby by the age of 18 months.  When your child has received all of these vaccines, text us 'DONE'.

48
Happy 4th Birthday to your baby who is not such a baby anymore. Your child should receive their 5th dose of DTaP, 4th dose of IPV, and 2nd dose of MMR and Varicella. These vaccinations can be given any time between your child's 4th and 6th birthday. When your child has received all of these vaccines, text us 'DONE'.

72
Has your child received their 4-6 year old vaccinations? These include: their 5th dose of DTaP, 4th dose of IPV, and 2nd dose of MMR and Varicella. When your child has received all of these vaccines, text us 'DONE'.